# Design Decisions
\<Andrew Sosa>

> I created private global variables that would allow me to communicate between the different functions I created. For example "val" takes the total from all the die rolled and it being global allows me to call it in the getDiceTotal() function. In the roll() function I added an if Statement that checks if the number of dice is less than 1 or if the number of dice sides is less than 2. If those two statements are false then it will print out saying that the inputs are wrong. I had the program throw a DiceException instead of the print statement but the professor said to take it out on discord. I still wanted to user to know if their inputs were wrong. The roll function also goes through a for loop assigning a random number from 1 to the users inputed number of sides per dice until the number of dices has been reached. These random numbers of each dice roll are placed in an array (DiceA[]) where the location they're in in the array is the die number and the actual number in the array is the valued that dice rolled. This array is later used in the getDieValue(int dieNumber) function where  it looks in the array using dieNumber and grabs the value the user is looking for. This function also checks and throws two exceptions. One to see if the Dice have been rolled before checking for the die value and another to check if the number entered into dieNumber is valid (greater than or equal to 1 and less than or equal to the max number of dice rolled. getDiceTotal() and getDiceCount() use an if statement in the beginning of their respective fucntions to check if the dice has been rolled and if it hasn't they return -1 to indicate this error, if not then it continues as planned and returns the correct data. I also added a main function that uses Scanner to intake the users requests such as the number of dice, the number of sides per die, and which die value they would like to see. After the program rolls all the dice and gets the dice total and count, I used an infinite while loop to ask the user which die value they would like to see.

